
Dictionary Processor
Overview
The Dictionary Processor is a Python-based tool for processing dictionary data from an input JSON file, translating English meanings into Hindi, and saving the processed entries to a new JSON file. It uses the Argos Translate library for language translation and supports batch processing with progress tracking and caching.

Features
Batch Processing: Processes entries in configurable batch sizes for efficiency.
Translation: Translates English meanings to Hindi using Argos Translate.
Caching: Uses a local cache to avoid redundant translations, improving performance.
Progress Tracking: Saves progress and resumes from the last processed batch.
Concurrent Execution: Processes dictionary entries concurrently to speed up execution.
Resumable Execution: If interrupted, processing resumes from where it left off.
Prerequisites
Python 3.8 or higher
Ensure Python is installed and available in your system PATH.

Required Libraries
Install the required Python packages using the following command:

bash
Copy code
pip install argostranslate
Usage
1. Input File
Place your input JSON file (e.g., jmdict-eng-3.3.1.json) in the desired location.

2. Run the Script
Execute the script by running:

bash
Copy code
python dictionary_processor.py
3. Output
The processed dictionary will be saved as japanese_dictionary_hindi.json in the output folder.
Progress and cache files are stored in the same directory.
Configuration
Input File: Update the input_file variable in the script to point to your JSON file.
Output Folder: The output_folder variable specifies where output files will be saved.
Batch Size: Customize the batch_size parameter to control how many entries are processed in each batch.
Concurrency: Adjust the max_workers parameter to set the number of threads used for processing.
Files Generated
Output JSON: japanese_dictionary_hindi.json (processed dictionary with Hindi meanings).
Translation Cache: .translation_cache.json (stores previously translated meanings).
Progress File: .processing_progress.json (tracks processing progress).
Error Handling
Translation Errors: If a translation fails, the original English text is retained.
File Errors: If a required file is missing, the script will create necessary placeholders or stop with an appropriate message.
Example Output
A processed dictionary entry will look like:

json
Copy code
{
    "kanji": ["食べる"],
    "kana": ["たべる"],
    "meaning": ["खाना", "भोजन करना"]
}
License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Contributing
Feel free to submit issues or pull requests for improvements!